Introduction to PM
Product Thinking
Product Discovery
Market Research
Product Roadmap and execution
Product growth and analytics
Stakeholder Management for PM.

Agenda
    What is Product Management?
    Why do we need Product Managers?
    Skills of Product Managers.
    Responsibilities of Product Managers.
    Workflow of a Product Manager.


Product management is the intersection of 
    Tech
    UX
    Business

Product Managers:
    Help your team: Helping the team increase -efficiency and -productivity increasing -coordination and -communication.
    (and company) : Understanding -the mission of the company and -strategic goals.
    ship: -Getting things done. -Launching the product. -Working with uncertainties.
    the right products to: Success Indicators: -Sales -Retention -DAU -NPS -Rating
    your users. Advocate for users with -Empathty -Problems -Persona


PM sets the direction for the company make sure the priorities to be focussed are in the interest of the company.
    Priority examples:
        SEO.
        No hickups in payments by integrating with multiple payment gateways.
        Well designed homepage to convert when boosted with ads.
PM main goal is prioritization of specific goals and setting the direction of the company.
    What needs to be done at this puricular period of time with the resources that we have.

Success Indicators:
    Sales
    Retention
    DAU
    NPS
    Rating

Product Manager key skills:
    User Empathy
    Business Sense
    Analytical Abilities
    Problem Solving
    Product Execution
    Collaboration and Persuation.
    Ability to learn quickly

PM Responsibilities:
    Define product vision, strategy, ideation and roadmap.
    Collect, curates and manages customer requirements.
    Works with business, tech, design etc, to deliver solution for business outcomes and user delight.
    Ensures quality through testing and validation.
    Communicates effectively with stakeholders including customers, team members, investors and executives.
    Makes decisions on resource allocation and trade-offs.

6D Framework:
    Discover.
    Define.
    Design.
    Develop.
    Deliver.
    Debrief.

Startegy -> Requirements -> Execution -> Go to market.



